# Shine

A new Flutter mobile app for [Space App Sarawak competition](https://2021.spaceappschallenge.org/challenges/statements/you-are-my-sunshine/details). 


The Earth intercepts a lot of solar power, 173 thousand terawatts, that’s ten thousand times more powerful than the earth’s population consumes. However, a lot of useful information associated with solar energy is not commonly known by the general public, especially homeowners. Hence, this is why we created SHINE, a mobile application that simplifies NASA’s data in a user-friendly dashboard that allows homeowners to easily gain access to meteorological data, monitor the electrical output, estimate future electrical savings, and so on. Our app aims to help homeowners in making better solar panel purchasing decisions and encourage more people to utilize solar energy to save our planet Earth.



## What exactly does it do?
Our mobile application brings NASA’s data in front of the people’s eyes, especially homeowners. We created a dashboard to streamline and simplify the data given by NASA that allows homeowners to easily gain access to meteorological data such as solar irradiance, wind speed, the surrounding temperature, humidity, and the amount of clouds. Not only that, users can also monitor the electrical output of the solar panel and estimate the electrical savings of their desired type of solar panel based on the selected time range to enable more informed solar panel purchasing decisions.



## How does it work?
Once the users clicked into the app, they will see a gorgeous opening screen with our logo and logo name displayed. After some introduction, now it’s time for the users to choose their home location. Once finished, the first thing the users will see is our main page where every single detail will be displayed on. After the system receives users’ home location, users can now check and monitor the meteorological data in this clean interface. Users can also choose whether they want to monitor these data in various temporal resolutions like daily and yearly. Besides that, we know some users are concerned about finance too, as it became the factor that we added the estimated savings section which is located at the end of our main page. Users are able to customize the time range to estimate the savings based on the types of solar panels chosen. From the parameters you choose, the savings will automatically be calculated based on the efficiency of your solar panels. it's so much easier to access now!


## What benefit does it have?
In our app, our users can monitor the electrical output that is generated by the solar panels, and estimate future electrical savings. With this, it reduces our users’ daily expenses and also conserves our mother earth by using renewable energy. Our app also focuses to help those who are interested in seeking historical data and provide more informed solar panel purchasing decisions too.



## Our 240s of Glory:
Video Link: https://youtu.be/HJ_P2kFPf_8





## What do you hope to achieve?
We hope to bring out this helpful information and statistical reports provided from NASA to the general public in an accessible manner, especially to some essential fields like commercial renewable energy and sustainable building ventures. We also want to develop a user-friendly mobile application associated with sunshine to cultivate a global, systematic, and emphatic understanding of average solar irradiance on a specific day, the temperature and humidity of an environment, speed of the wind, and the clouds in the surrounding.



Most importantly, we want to encourage the earth's citizens of all ages by utilizing our mobile application to gain a clear understanding of their living environment and help them to embrace the benefits of solar power.





## Tools:
NASA POWER API service - To get all the data we need to be displayed in the app
Flutter and Dart library - The codebase of the entire app 
Figma - Design the wireframe of the app
Visual Studio Code - Used as Integrated Development Environment to ease our developing process
Git and Github - Version control and Collaboration Tool 




## Coding Languages:
Flutter
Dart


